>> Kadi Kraman: Hi,
before we get into coding,
I wanted to quickly talk about
React Native Frameworks.
So you might be wondering why in this
introduction to React Native course,
we just created an Expo app and
we installed Expo Go.
So in short,
Expo is a React Native framework.
So this is the same as how Nextjs or
Remix or
Redwoodjs are reacting Frameworks
as of React Con in 2024,
Meta actually recommends
using React Native framework,
so specifically expo for
creating new react native apps.
So you are wondering why
is Vanilla React native?
So React native without a framework,
not enough, and basically what
React native gives us out of the box
is the ability to run react code.
So some java script code with react on
native iOS and android platforms so
using the underlying native components.
So a huge amount of work goes into
making this happen, we have metro for
bundling and Hermes java script runtime
and jsi and all kinds of stuff.
So this is not an easy feat.
And on top of this, we also get some
core building blocks, like your text and
view and scroll up the lists.
But a huge amount of things that almost
every mobile app needs aren't built
into react native so for example,
we don't get navigation out of the box.
We can't send push notifications,
we can't store data across app launches,
we can't use the phone camera, etc.
And there's plenty of things that is
possible to do, it's just really hard.
So for example, changing the app icon or
adding custom native code or just building
the app bundles for store release,
they're possible but they're tedious.
And this isn't a failing by meta.
This is by design because adding all of
these functionality out of the box would
make reactivity completely unmaintainable
for the really small reacting matter.
So, we need to add these ourselves.
And from the very beginning, and
React Native is literally almost
10 years old now, which is wild.
And from the very beginning, React Native
developers have had to rely on community
libraries for these functionality.
And there is also this page here,
React Native Directory, which is a great
resource for finding various
community libraries for React Native.
>> Kadi Kraman: The problem is if you're
only just getting started, it's very
difficult to know which libraries are fit
for purpose, which work well together.
What's even possible, especially if
it's at the start of your project.
So this is where the React Native
framework comes in.
So the role of a React
framework is defined in...
In the RFC,
which you can also look up here.
And it's a cohesive framework that's
built on top of React Native.
And it consists of tools and
libraries that are not provided
by default in React Native.
There's also a bunch of requirements for
something to become a framework.
But the main thing that's important
here is that a framework needs to
be open source, popular and free.
So companies may provide
additional pay features on top of
the framework, but
the core of it needs to be free.
The pay parts should not be
requirements to use the framework and
there should be no vendor lock-in.
So there's three restrictions for
something to become
a React Native framework.
So Expo is the open source React Native
framework that we're going to be using
throughout this course.
In particular, we're using Expo Go.
Now this is really important,
Expo Go is not Expo.
Expo Go is one small part
of the Expo framework.
It's a sandbox environment that's
meant for learning, prototyping, and
getting started quickly.
It is not recommended to build
your production apps with Expo Go.
We're using Expo Go today because
we're learning about React Native, and
this is literally the use case for it.
In the intermediate course, we're going
to move on to development builds,
which is what you graduate to
after you outgrow Expo Go.